---
layout: post
title:  "Dune"
date:   2021-10-22 11:40:00 +0200
categories: movies
---

**NOTE: This review contains spoliers to the movie.**

Rating: ⭐⭐⭐

**The Gist:** Most shots in the movies are spectacular and the story keeps you interested. Few scenes needed better audio mixing with the dialogue being inaudible and the cast performance is laudible. However, the story teeters on the edge of making you lose interest because of the slow pace.

# The Good

The movies has definetely left me anticipiating the next release of the Dune saga. I might just read the book instead of wait! The scenes in the movies are well though out. The cinematography by [Greig Fraser](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greig_Fraser) is on point with the scenes from Caladan, Arrakis and other planets looking magnificent. The ambience set up by the music was great and kept me at the edge of my seat. It potrayed the sense of danger that always surrounded House Atreides.

# The Bad

The run time of the movie could have been cut down to two hours while maintaining the same amount of story. The storyline ends up just introducing few of the factions in Dune universe, House Atreides taking and losing control of Arrakis and Paul Atreides meeting the Fremen. The plot doesn't move as fast as it could and it seems that pacing was sacrificed to use the amazing B roll that was created. Most characters were forgettable including Duncan played by Jason Momoa because of the lack of screen time. The only notable cast in the movie were Leto and Paul Atreides, Vladimir Harkonnen and Head of the Bene Gesserit.